deck.mdx, before:

import { Appear } from 'mdx-deck';

## Designers vs Developers 
🥊⚔☠
### Is it war?

---

<div style={{ fontSize: '14px', display: 'inline-block' }}>

| Key      | Description
| ---------|----------------------------------------- |
| ️⬅️ Arrow  | Go to previous slide (or step in Appear) |
| ➡️ Arrow  | Go to next slide (or step in Appear)     |
| Space    | Go to next slide (or step in Appear)     |
| Alt + P  | Toggle Presenter Mode                    |
| Alt + O  | Toggle Overview Mode                     |
| Alt + G  | Toggle Grid Mode                         |

(Ask me about `mdx-deck` at the end if we have time)

</div>

---

![](https://thumbs.gfycat.com/BreakableIlliterateHornet-size_restricted.gif)

---

or...

---

![](https://media1.giphy.com/media/U4lqfGS1A5gu4/source.gif)

---

or...

---

![](https://media3.giphy.com/media/t9lBN9UKUOG4ja58Yo/giphy.gif)

---

How much do you enjoy working with designers?*

![](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/technology/2017/10/12/buttons_smileyterminal_021_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqGMnc4YhMRu2Hwgj0Pxi-08_CHVETMwXu3LdR-h90xZ4.jpg?imwidth=450)


*🔗 https://wall.sli.do/event/p8omzfke

---

<iframe src="https://app.sli.do/event/p8omzfke/embed/polls/f3b2aba6-e9f7-4008-8b88-bdca96542deb" width="300" height="425" scrolling="no" frameBorder="0"></iframe>

---

How do you work with them?**

![](https://media0.giphy.com/media/h36vh423PiV9K/giphy.gif)

**🔗 https://wall.sli.do/event/p8omzfke

---

<iframe src="https://app.sli.do/event/p8omzfke/embed/polls/6053ade4-86b5-4000-bf88-29ed1121a1f0" width="300" height="400" scrolling="no" frameBorder="0"></iframe>

---

## How do we solve this? 🤯

🤬 -> 👨‍👨‍👧‍👦👩‍👦‍👦

---

## Pain points 😱

<ol>
  <Appear>
    <li>Getting a new design every day</li>
    <li>Designers working too far ahead</li>
    <li>Redesigns happening without developers knowing</li>
    <li>Which version? 20 design links for the same page</li>
    <li>Accessibility and performance not thought through</li>
    <li>Lack of empathy for each other</li>
  </Appear>
</ol>

---

# 🤖 vs 💄

---

## How can we all get along?

<ol>
  <Appear>
    <li>Designs printed on the wall</li>
    <li>Style guides/Component libraries</li>
    <li>Devs involved early</li>
    <li>Help each other out</li>
    <li>Design reviews</li>
    <li><a href="https://www.gv.com/sprint/">Design sprints</a> (with all involved)</li>
    <li>Get them on the team!</li>
  </Appear>
</ol>

---

## Creating a collaborative environment

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8T94qu8IWWk?controls=0" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

## Is this (really) agile?

![](https://thumbs.gfycat.com/BothImmaculateHyrax-size_restricted.gif)

---

## A Handoff 🏉 
## vs 
## A Collaborative process 🔫

---

# Tools? 🧰🛠

---

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/3760/1*_or_mWLmeO_ltI02gz4apg.gif)

---

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/u3lRZYoFXow?controls=0" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

## Just a few:
<ul>
  <Appear>
    <li><a href="https://www.sketch.com/">Sketch</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://zeplin.io/why-zeplin">Zeplin</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://www.abstract.com/blog/developer-handoff-for-designers/">Abstract</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://www.invisionapp.com/">InVision</a> (<a href="https://www.invisionapp.com/feature/inspect">Inspect</a> and <a href="https://www.invisionapp.com/design-system-manager">DSM</a>)</li>
    <li><a href="https://help.figma.com/article/32-developer-handoff">Figma</a></li>
  </Appear>
</ul>

---


## ⛔ Controversy alert! 🙊

Should we as devs learn a bit of design?

---

![](https://media.giphy.com/media/KpACNEh8jXK2Q/200.gif)

---

![](https://media3.giphy.com/media/ySpxjJmsq9gsw/giphy.gif)

---

# A `'Design System'`

## Will this solve all our problems? 

---

# 🤷‍♀

---

![](https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1560461396-ec0ef7bb29dd?ixlib=rb-1.2.1&ixid=eyJhcHBfaWQiOjEyMDd9&auto=format&fit=crop&w=2000&q=80)

---

 > “A Design System is the single source of truth which groups all the elements that will allow the teams to design, realize and develop a product.”

 – [Everything you need to know about Design Systems](https://uxdesign.cc/everything-you-need-to-know-about-design-systems-54b109851969)

---

## Examples:*

  * https://lightningdesignsystem.com/
  * https://polaris.shopify.com/
  * https://material.io/
  * https://atlassian.design/
  * https://airbnb.design/building-a-visual-language/
  * Internal Valtech design systems - available on request**

---

 *but remember these are just hiring tools

 **ping me and I can do a demo

---

## Design Systems resources:

* 📺[Brad Frost on the Technical Side of Design Systems](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TgWyyoofKIA)
* 🎧[Rethinking designer-developer collaboration podcast](https://www.designbetter.co/podcast/brad-frost-dan-mall)
* 📑[Comprehensive guide to Design Systems (from InVision)](https://www.invisionapp.com/inside-design/guide-to-design-systems/)
* 📺[6-part series on Design Systems (with the usual suspects)](https://www.invisionapp.com/design-system-manager/expert-advice)
* 📖[Design Systems Handbook](https://www.designbetter.co/design-systems-handbook)

---

# Thank you! 🙏

---

## Feedback:

🔗 https://sli.do/dvd

---

[`@timhacker`](https://twitter.com/timhacker)

[Slides on Netlify](https://designers-vs-developers.netlify.com/)

<a href="https://netlify.com" target="_blank"> 
  <img width="100px" src="https://www.netlify.com/img/press/logos/logomark.png"/>
</a>

---

Created using mdx-deck

https://github.com/jxnblk/mdx-deck

---

🐳 https://twitter.com/timhacker

🤖 https://github.com/timhacker

Commit message:

Added custom theme and reduced font size

deck.mdx, after:

import { Appear } from 'mdx-deck';
import standard from '@mdx-deck/themes'
import theme from './theme'

export const themes = [ standard, theme ]

## Designers vs Developers 
🥊⚔☠
### Is it war?

---

<div style={{ fontSize: '16px', display: 'inline-block' }}>

| Key      | Description
| ---------|----------------------------------------- |
| ️⬅️ Arrow  | Go to previous slide (or step in Appear) |
| ➡️ Arrow  | Go to next slide (or step in Appear)     |
| Space    | Go to next slide (or step in Appear)     |
| Alt + P  | Toggle Presenter Mode                    |
| Alt + O  | Toggle Overview Mode                     |
| Alt + G  | Toggle Grid Mode                         |

(Ask me about [`mdx-deck`](https://dev.to/davefollett/mdx-deck-getting-started-4hn3) at the end if we have time)

</div>

---

![](https://thumbs.gfycat.com/BreakableIlliterateHornet-size_restricted.gif)

---

or...

---

![](https://media1.giphy.com/media/U4lqfGS1A5gu4/source.gif)

---

or...

---

![](https://media3.giphy.com/media/t9lBN9UKUOG4ja58Yo/giphy.gif)

---

### How much do you enjoy working with designers?*

![](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/technology/2017/10/12/buttons_smileyterminal_021_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqGMnc4YhMRu2Hwgj0Pxi-08_CHVETMwXu3LdR-h90xZ4.jpg?imwidth=450)


*🔗 https://wall.sli.do/event/p8omzfke

---

### Results:

<iframe src="https://app.sli.do/event/p8omzfke/embed/polls/f3b2aba6-e9f7-4008-8b88-bdca96542deb" width="300" height="425" scrolling="no" frameBorder="0"></iframe>

---

### How do you work with them?**

![](https://media0.giphy.com/media/h36vh423PiV9K/giphy.gif)

**🔗 https://wall.sli.do/event/p8omzfke

---

### Results:

<iframe src="https://app.sli.do/event/p8omzfke/embed/polls/6053ade4-86b5-4000-bf88-29ed1121a1f0" width="300" height="400" scrolling="no" frameBorder="0"></iframe>

---

## Pain points 😱

<ol>
  <Appear>
    <li>Getting a new design every day</li>
    <li>Designers working too far ahead</li>
    <li>Redesigns happening without developers knowing</li>
    <li>Which version? 20 design links for the same page</li>
    <li>Accessibility and performance not thought through</li>
    <li>Lack of empathy for each other</li>
  </Appear>
</ol>

---

## How do we solve this? 🤯

🤬 -> 👨‍👨‍👧‍👦👩‍👦‍👦

---

## How can we all get along? 🤖 vs 💄

<ol>
  <Appear>
    <li>Designs printed on the wall</li>
    <li>Style guides/Component libraries</li>
    <li>Devs involved early</li>
    <li>Help each other out</li>
    <li>Design reviews</li>
    <li><a href="https://www.gv.com/sprint/">Design sprints</a> (with all involved)</li>
    <li>Get them on the team!</li>
  </Appear>
</ol>

---

## Creating a collaborative environment 📺

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8T94qu8IWWk?controls=0" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

## Is this (really) agile?

![](https://thumbs.gfycat.com/BothImmaculateHyrax-size_restricted.gif)

---

## 'The Handoff' 🏉 
## or 
## a Collaborative process? 🔫

---

# Tools? 🧰🛠

---

![](https://miro.medium.com/max/3760/1*_or_mWLmeO_ltI02gz4apg.gif)

---

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/u3lRZYoFXow?controls=0" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

## Just a few:
<ul>
  <Appear>
    <li><a href="https://www.sketch.com/">Sketch</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://zeplin.io/why-zeplin">Zeplin</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://www.abstract.com/blog/developer-handoff-for-designers/">Abstract</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://www.invisionapp.com/">InVision</a> (<a href="https://www.invisionapp.com/feature/inspect">Inspect</a> and <a href="https://www.invisionapp.com/design-system-manager">DSM</a>)</li>
    <li><a href="https://help.figma.com/article/32-developer-handoff">Figma</a></li>
  </Appear>
</ul>

---


## ⛔ Controversy alert! 🙊

Should we as devs learn a bit of design?

---

![](https://media.giphy.com/media/KpACNEh8jXK2Q/200.gif)

---

![](https://media3.giphy.com/media/ySpxjJmsq9gsw/giphy.gif)

---

# A `'Design System'`

## Will this solve all our problems? 

---

# 🤷‍♀

---

![](https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1560461396-ec0ef7bb29dd?ixlib=rb-1.2.1&ixid=eyJhcHBfaWQiOjEyMDd9&auto=format&fit=crop&w=2000&q=80)

---

 > “A Design System is the single source of truth which groups all the elements that will allow the teams to design, realize and develop a product.”

 – [Everything you need to know about Design Systems](https://uxdesign.cc/everything-you-need-to-know-about-design-systems-54b109851969)

---

## Examples:*

  * https://lightningdesignsystem.com/
  * https://polaris.shopify.com/
  * https://material.io/
  * https://atlassian.design/
  * https://airbnb.design/building-a-visual-language/
  * Internal Valtech design systems - available on request**

---

 *but remember these are just hiring tools

 **ping me and I can do a demo

---

## Design Systems resources:

* 📺[Brad Frost on the Technical Side of Design Systems](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TgWyyoofKIA)
* 🎧[Rethinking designer-developer collaboration podcast](https://www.designbetter.co/podcast/brad-frost-dan-mall)
* 📑[Comprehensive guide to Design Systems (from InVision)](https://www.invisionapp.com/inside-design/guide-to-design-systems/)
* 📺[6-part series on Design Systems (with the usual suspects)](https://www.invisionapp.com/design-system-manager/expert-advice)
* 📖[Design Systems Handbook](https://www.designbetter.co/design-systems-handbook)

---

# Thank you! 🙏

---

## Feedback:

🔗 https://sli.do/dvd

---

[`@timhacker`](https://twitter.com/timhacker)

[Slides on Netlify](https://designers-vs-developers.netlify.com/)

<a href="https://netlify.com" target="_blank"> 
  <img width="100px" src="https://www.netlify.com/img/press/logos/logomark.png"/>
</a>

---

Created using mdx-deck

https://github.com/jxnblk/mdx-deck

---

🐳 https://twitter.com/timhacker

🤖 https://github.com/timhacker
